
-   It helps if I allow myself a regular distraction during work. For example, I might have a movie on pause in the background, and sometimes when I get anxious I just watch the movie for a few minutes. (Of course, I watch it at double speed)
    -   Used to get guilt-ridden about such activities, e.g. because I was supposed to watch that movie after schoolwork, not before or during. But the guilt obscured the obvious fact that doing this actually helps me focus.
-   Totally in the middle of doing things I&rsquo;ll create a new tab and start to type &ldquo;news.ycombinator.com&rdquo;, my habitual destination. For an outsider probably looks like no reason. But I do it when feeling a little bout of anxiety, which is often. I don&rsquo;t even need to read anything there, but the act of browsing to it already lets out some pressure.
-   I can&rsquo;t watch movies at default speed. The only time I do it is with company, because then part of my mind can enjoy being in company, or think about other things.
    -   Thinking about other things while in company is sort of meditative, because there&rsquo;s the sense that I cannot leave and act on those thoughts anyway.
    -   On my own, I&rsquo;ll invariably think about something interesting that prompts me to do something, like take notes on the distance between Jupiter and the Sun. Movies progress too slowly to let me relax. Trying to just watch the movie and do nothing else is excruciatingly boring, and tends to piss me off more and more if I&rsquo;m forced to do it (e.g. if teachers play a video in the classroom). It&rsquo;s much better at double speed (2x). Then it&rsquo;s sufficiently stimulating to hold my attention.
        -   Even better is having control of the speed with the computer keyboard. Depending on what&rsquo;s happening in the movie, the &ldquo;information content per second&rdquo;, I can vary between as much as 8x and as little as 1.5x.
-   The best time to work on a personal project is when I&rsquo;m supposed to do something else. Once the chore ends and I have actual free time, I&rsquo;ll proceed to waste all of my time on something that&rsquo;s not the personal project anyway. Which is why I can be so excited during work to follow my inspiration on some self-actualization thing &#x2013; there&rsquo;s no other time for it! It&rsquo;s why I can come home from 10 hours at the school study hall during which I only did a small assignment worth about 30 minutes, and be very happy because I did a lot of other stuff with personal relevance.
-   I can now identify that actually I have used alcohol for studying, as a &ldquo;Calming & Coping Strategy&rdquo;.  I already knew that&rsquo;s the main effect I was looking for, I wasn&rsquo;t interested in the intoxication, but I still somehow missed that I have an anxiety problem (&ldquo;hyperactivity&rdquo;?).
-   I drink coffee to calm down. It&rsquo;s never given me energy and I&rsquo;ve always said I&rsquo;m immune to coffee. If I drink too much coffee I will fall asleep.
-   I have a constant need to &ldquo;be somewhere else doing something else&rdquo;. Always running dual mental tracks, one listening to you and one thinking in the meantime while I wait for you to finish speaking. Often I want to [complete your sentence](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Completing%20Other%20Person's%20Sentences) because I get where you&rsquo;re going, but that would be rude so I wait.
    -   (But isn&rsquo;t that actually rude in a way? It&rsquo;s like lying: pretending that I don&rsquo;t see where you&rsquo;re going so I can pretend to be shocked or show whatever reaction is appropriate when you arrive at your point)
    -   I nod when I get where you&rsquo;re going. I don&rsquo;t get why so many people just continue to talk after I nod. When someone nods at me in that way, I cut off my sentence, [grateful I don&rsquo;t have to keep talking](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Not%20Completing%20My%20Sentences), grateful to be understood.
    -   Usually what I&rsquo;m thinking about during a conversation is remembering the previous branches of conversation so I can close them later. E.g. something you said before that I had a comment for. This rarely succeeds but creates stress all the same.
        -   This is part of why it&rsquo;s so frustrating to have to wait for people to finish speaking. Every second that passes is a greater chance I&rsquo;ll forget the previous talking points. Among other things because my mind wants to *do something* and it may start thinking about something totally unrelated which then pushes the important thing out of my short-term memory and I forget it.
-   Sometimes understanding what you just said can take me up to 10 seconds. I heard the sounds and recognized the words and sentence structure, it&rsquo;s just empty of meaning, until the right part of my brain is plugged in. This is called [buffering](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Buffering). It&rsquo;s like being under a delusion that you can read hieroglyphics and then try to read some hieroglyphics and then feel frustrated that you don&rsquo;t understand anything and you don&rsquo;t even understand why you&rsquo;re not understanding. Then suddenly all the symbols transform into English.
-   Severe memory issues
    -   I forget that I have memory issues.
    -   I have to write everything down. If you give me instructions, I will only remember them if nothing else interrupts me. Given that something will probably interrupt me (like a [bee in my own head](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Distractions)), it&rsquo;s best to write them down.
-   Sticking to self-organization systems only for as long as they are a project I&rsquo;m fixating on

