
# Table of Contents

1.  [Potential](#orgbd2ab8e)
2.  [Prosocial potential](#org21be1c7)
3.  [Design of nodes](#orgefdf4e3)
    1.  [Recipe](#org1caaafd)
    2.  [No &ldquo;Everything-nodes&rdquo;](#orgc17cec2)
    3.  [Use transclusion for writing about history](#org658372a)
4.  [Usage](#org144a0c9)
5.  [Pros of hierarchy](#org3ff2d50)

Planted <span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2022-01-04 Tue]</span></span>

My beliefs:

-   (<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2022-01-21 Fri] </span></span> 80% confidence): this will massively improve my life

My feelings:

-   <span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2022-01-21 Fri] </span></span> I feel very good about it.


<a id="orgbd2ab8e"></a>

# Potential

I see potential for slipboxes to help the owner with the following things and more

-   Internal Double Crux
-   Goal Factoring
    -   when fleshing out a node, add how I feel about the topic
-   halos / affect heuristic
-   ugh fields
-   confirmation bias
-   beliefs not paying rent
-   circular belief networks
-   rationalization
-   Chesterton&rsquo;s Fences
-   cached thoughts
-   semantic stopsigns
    -   When you have no interest in fleshing out a node because it feels obvious or basic, at least write a blurb about your belief and its [Epistemic status](../2022-01-13-epistemic-status.md).  This could help you detect a semantic stopsign or some such error, so you&rsquo;re at least aware of it.  Such nodes aren&rsquo;t uninteresting extremities of your belief system &#x2013; they are the underpinnings that justify it!  Having access to these statements could also help you later if you want to explore these underpinnings more deeply.
-   bucket errors
    -   automatically prevented by the nature of slipboxes, I think
-   inside/outside view (reference class forecasting)
    -   Part of recipe
-   calibration / inner sim training / countering the availability heuristic
    -   whenever possible, on every topic, present both data and examples on it
        -   ideally, data is visualized according to good principles of data visualization
        -   this can take so many forms, but for example when you write a node about bicycle tires, you can add an example about what products you might find in your local store and how to interpret the descriptions on those products
-   gears-level understanding
    -   When a node links to another with an implication of causality, state the causal connection explicitly, and the how or why (if possible).
        -   Instead of writing &ldquo;Free market capitalism may lead to eco-collapse&rdquo;, you&rsquo;d write &ldquo;Free market capitalism may, by motivating selfish behavior, lead to eco-collapse&rdquo;. The idea is to make it easy to realize later on that you don&rsquo;t think this way anymore and reverse the conclusion.  This requirement also naturally leads to asking &ldquo;What do I know and why do I think I know it?&rdquo;, which is always good.
-   humility


<a id="org21be1c7"></a>

# Prosocial potential

> Techno-optimism is unfashionable at the moment, but I suspect we still haven’t come close to realizing the potential of even the internet technology of the 1990s. When thousands of people converge on a topic, the collective knowledge far exceeds any one person, but our current interaction models don’t do a great job of synthesizing it. It’s a difficult problem, but it’s hard to imagine that in a hundred years we won’t have more effective ways to interact.

--<https://www.greaterwrong.com/posts/8mjoPYdeESB7ZcZvB/observations-about-writing-and-commenting-on-the-internet>

See also [The Garden and the Stream](../2021-08-29-the-garden-and-the-stream.md)


<a id="orgefdf4e3"></a>

# Design of nodes

[Garden metadata](../2022-01-23-garden-metadata.md)


<a id="org1caaafd"></a>

## Recipe

A general &ldquo;recipe&rdquo;, or bundle of questions, to stimulate content on a new node:

-   Don&rsquo;t want to fill out the topic?  That&rsquo;s OK so long as you report epistemic status on any current belief related to it.  This helps detect semantic stopsigns and circular belief networks, in addition to the interesting info.
-   Datestamp, think of what you currently believe, and report epistemic status (a statement of confidence level).
    -   this would frequently make me prompt myself &ldquo;why is my confidence at this level&rdquo; which may lead to more writing matter. If not, here&rsquo;s a trigger: Find the principles/assumptions underlying my current thinking about the topic.
-   Datestamp, and answer the question: how do I feel about the topic?  This helps with future goal factoring, detecting affect heuristic.
-   (something for inside/outside views)
-   Examples. This may counter availability heuristic and train inner sim / calibration
-   Data / statistics, to train inner sim / calibration
    -   Visualized data
-   When causaliy linked with another topic, say so and try to say how/by what mechanism. This helps gears-level understanding.
-   Who/when/where/what/why/how
-   Questions section; What confuses me about this topic?


<a id="orgc17cec2"></a>

## No &ldquo;Everything-nodes&rdquo;

On designing the garden as a whole, try not to create &ldquo;Everything-nodes&rdquo;, that link to a bit of everything.  An example would be if you made a node called &ldquo;History&rdquo; that links to the histories of every single topic, which in turn link to every topic, so you&rsquo;ll have a central node around which your network ties itself in knots.  It&rsquo;s not pretty when graphed visually.

Although you can just make sure to set the grapher to exclude such nodes, if you still want them.  Or you make sure to embed very few actual hyperlinks in such nodes.


<a id="org658372a"></a>

## Use transclusion for writing about history

I like to write about the history of a specific topic as well as about specific people that lived in the past.  Obviously, these overlap.  How do I avoid duplicating content, writing the same facts in several places?

A trick is to think of &ldquo;history notes&rdquo; as compositions of &ldquo;people notes&rdquo;, chronologically ordered.  Just transclude the text from those notes.  A drawback is that when you deal with people like Newton or Aristotle who influenced almost every topic, resulting in irrelevant material when you want to focus on a specific topic.  For these people, you can make an exception and *not* transclude, instead write a summary of how they impacted this subject, and of course leave a hyperlink to that person.  Basically how Wikipedia does it.

If I really want to avoid duplicating content, I suppose each &ldquo;people note&rdquo; could have subheadings for how they influenced each topic, and we&rsquo;d transclude only that subheading.  However, I think this makes worse separation of concerns.  Stuff specifically about History of Statistics should not live outside the History of Statistics note.


<a id="org144a0c9"></a>

# Usage

-   Web clipping
    -   use org-board
-   Books
    -   org-noter
        -   some issues to be ironed out
            -   org-noter should assign id and title to all new note files, so roam will pick it up
    -   quotes?
-   Exploring the &ldquo;cardbase&rdquo;
    -   Rely on dense linking
    -   Rely in part on taxonomy in so-called topic notes, while accepting that it won&rsquo;t be complete and that&rsquo;s okay
    -   Tag-based searching
    -   Delve
    -   Org-roam-ui
-   Tagging
    -   consider if this tag transfers well to any Anki notes within
-   Org-roam fixes
    -   Make it not ask you for the filename, it&rsquo;s not important
    -   a capture template for making a blank file without visiting it (useful for linking to a node that hadnt existed)
    -   -extract-subtree should not bury the created note at bottom of buflist
    -   Make so that a well-populated backlinks buffer is visually pleasant for you
    -   org-roam-node-random is a great tool for incremental writing, but for this it should exclude dailies

> A wiki does not enforce discipline in keeping ideas atomic. Imagine a hybrid between twitter and a wiki, where there&rsquo;s a character limit on wiki pages &#x2013; that would be closer to Zettelkasten. It forces you to break things up, which can result in reifying concepts which otherwise would be a forgettable paragraph in a longer text.

> [&#x2026;] but what really freaks me out is seeing the dentist. [&#x2026;]  Now as a mature, psychoanalyzed adult I STILL get weird, compulsive, emotionally distant, and rigid. In waiting a day to deal with fear of pain (denied) I decided to create template in Roam. A card template a patient could use to prepare for a new, emergent, medical or dental contact. I titled it Good to Go and worked on it a couple of hours. Made a provisional outline and sketches of examples of what pt. need to collect, know, tell the MD, etc and also some sketches of a &ldquo;manual&rdquo; what the risky points a patient might expect in a new setting.
> 
> The whole effort was about two pages, and three hours of work and writing. Went to bed, slept and had a dream (significant as in this type of situation I usually would have disturbed sleep.)
> 
> Incidental Finding: Remarkably when I went to the Oral Surgeon to have tooth pulled I was relaxed, had good questions, remembered all I was told, and after leaving realized that something at a deep level of consciousness had occurred. I attribute this to Roam.

On Roam:

> Since you start in the Daily Notes, every day becomes its own page and you can “pre-create” those pages with the Date Picker. So when I have a thought about something on a future day, or want to assign a to-do for myself for the future, I can just tag that date. 

i.e. you should have a command org-roam-dailies-insert-date so that if you want to schedule something in the future, you&rsquo;ll create the daily page for that date and link to it. Then on that day the backlink will be visible.

this and more from <https://www.nateliason.com/blog/roam>


<a id="org3ff2d50"></a>

# Pros of hierarchy

> I had this problem when I was trying to keep a good mental model of my Semantic Synchrony graph. A surprisingly nice thing about linear (including tree-hierarchical) text that I didn’t notice until I had a knowledge graph is that there’s a natural traversal you can measure your reading progress against. That is, it’s much easier to know “I’ve read 40% of this text file” than “I’ve read 40% of this knowledge graph.” Your knowledgr-graph files are likely to reference each other in a circular manner – that’s why they have to be a graph, not a tree.
> 
> The most natural solution would be to write code that creates a topological sort of the files, based on something like Kahn’s Algorithm.
> 
> But my solution, and it’s the most common one, is to simply not know what’s in the graph very well. The guy who invented Zettelkasten said navigating his knowledge graph was (eventually, after it was quite big) like conversation – it often surprised him.

&#x2013; <https://org-roam.discourse.group/t/how-to-browse-your-notes-efficiently/1001>

