-   It helps if I allow myself a regular distraction during work. For example, I might have a movie on pause in the background, and sometimes when I get anxious I just watch the movie for a few minutes. (Of course, I watch it at double speed)
    -   Used to get guilt-ridden about such activities, e.g. because I was supposed to watch that movie after schoolwork, not before or during. But the guilt obscured the obvious fact that doing this helps me stay on task.
-   Totally in the middle of doing things I&rsquo;ll create a new tab and start to type &ldquo;news.ycombinator.com&rdquo;, my habitual automatic destination. For an outsider probably looks like for no reason. But I do it when feeling a little bout of anxiety, which is often. I don&rsquo;t even need to read anything there, but the act of browsing to it already lets out some pressure.
-   I can&rsquo;t watch movies at default speed. The only time I do it is with company, because then part of my mind can enjoy being in company, or think about other things.
    -   Thinking about other things while in company is sort of meditative, because I cannot leave and act on those thoughts anyway.
    -   On my own, I&rsquo;ll invariably think about something interesting that prompts me to do something, like take notes on the distance between Jupiter and the Sun. Movies progress too slowly to let me relax.  It&rsquo;s much better at double speed (2x). Then it&rsquo;s sufficiently stimulating to hold my attention.
        -   Even better is having control of the speed with the computer keyboard. Depending on what&rsquo;s happening in the movie, the &ldquo;information content per second&rdquo;, I can vary between as much as 8x and as little as 1.5x.
-   The best time to work on a personal project is when I&rsquo;m supposed to do something else. Once the chore ends and I have actual free time, I&rsquo;ll proceed to waste all of my time on something that&rsquo;s not the personal project anyway. Which is why I can be so excited during work to follow my inspiration on some self-actualization thing &#x2013; there&rsquo;s no other time for it! It&rsquo;s why I can come home from 10 hours at the school study hall during which I only did a small assignment worth about 30 minutes, and be very happy because I did a lot of other stuff with personal relevance.
-   I drink coffee to calm down. It&rsquo;s never given me energy and I&rsquo;ve always said I&rsquo;m immune to coffee. If I drink too much coffee I will get sleepy and need a nap. This is apparently typical for people with ADHD.
-   I have a constant need to &ldquo;be somewhere else doing something else&rdquo;. Always running dual mental tracks, one listening to you and one thinking in the meantime while I wait for you to finish speaking. Often I want to [complete your sentence](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Completing%20Other%20Person's%20Sentences) because I get where you&rsquo;re going with it, and most of listening feels like waiting.
    -   I have a habit of nodding vigorously when I get where you&rsquo;re going.  But many people continue to talk after I do this, which I find puzzling.  When someone nods at me in that way, I cut off my sentence, [grateful I don&rsquo;t have to keep talking](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Not%20Completing%20My%20Sentences).
    -   Usually what I&rsquo;m thinking about during a conversation is remembering the previous branches of conversation so I can close them later. For example, something you said before that I had a comment for. This rarely succeeds, but I still try, because I care, but it creates stress.
        -   This is part of why it&rsquo;s frustrating to have to wait for people to finish speaking. Every second that passes is a greater chance I&rsquo;ll forget the previous talking points. Among other things because my mind wants to *do something* and it may start thinking about something totally unrelated which then pushes the important thing out of my short-term memory and I forget it.
-   I stick to self-organization systems only for as long as they are a capital-P Project I&rsquo;m fixating on and find interesting.
    -   My diary is full of references to self-organization projects that I forgot I ever started.
-   I pay the ADHD tax regularly: all the lateness fees and missed invoices.  I don&rsquo;t want to know how large this is.

Why I may act weird towards you

-   Memory issues
    -   I forget that I have memory issues. I act like I will have no problem remembering something, and then the thing is gone from my head without my awareness it was ever there.
    -   I have to write everything down. If you give me instructions, I will only remember them if nothing else interrupts me. Given that something will probably interrupt me (like a [bee in my head](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Distractions)), it&rsquo;s best to write them down.
    -   If you tell me something about yourself, it&rsquo;ll contribute to a general feeling I have of you, but I won&rsquo;t remember the information.  It happens that someone asks me what I know about one of my friends, questions like what does he like to do, where does he want to live in the future, what did he study and so on, and I won&rsquo;t have answers to any of the questions, or just vague answers. I seem to not know much about anyone.
        -   But people can remind me of things that happened before and I&rsquo;ll remember too.  These memories just don&rsquo;t have a lot of connections for me so it&rsquo;s hard to find them myself.  I need to formulate to myself &ldquo;get to know this person&rdquo; or &ldquo;get to know people in general&rdquo; as a capital-P Project before my brain will pay enough attention to everyday interactions to make memory connections.
    -   I rarely know what day it is.  As such, I miss birthdays.  It&rsquo;s not that you&rsquo;re not important to me, I just&#x2026; wait, it&rsquo;s the 17th of January?  The last time I thought about the date it was the 5th of December.
        -   This is one reason I prefer to give you presents on random days of the year.
-   I forget to &ldquo;feel&rdquo; you or kind of be emotionally aware that you exist.
    -   I really want to empathize with you, it just sometimes&#x2026; doesn&rsquo;t occur to me as a possible action.
    -   I remind myself to empathize with you, with a piece of paper in my pocket.
    -   It takes time to put myself in your shoes and start to make a guess as to what you may be feeling, 5-15 minutes of conscious thought.  So, sometimes I need a timeout in the bathroom or elsewhere just to think about and &ldquo;catch up&rdquo; to what everyone may be feeling.  When I don&rsquo;t empathize, it&rsquo;s possible I will say something that hurts you.  I&rsquo;m still looking for a good way to work with this.
-   Sometimes (only sometimes) understanding what you just said can take me up to 10 seconds, even if it was simple language. I heard the sounds and recognized the words and sentence structure, it&rsquo;s just empty of meaning, until the correct part of my brain is plugged in. This is called [buffering](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Buffering). It&rsquo;s like being under a delusion that you can read hieroglyphics and then try to read some hieroglyphics and then get confused because you don&rsquo;t understand anything. Then suddenly all the symbols transform into English.  This is one reason I can spend a while looking puzzled at something simple you said.
-   My memory is the worst in real-time conversation &#x2013; so I have two choices: don&rsquo;t talk or don&rsquo;t listen. That is, if I want to listen to you properly, I give up on trying to hold on to anything you say for which I had a question or comment.
    -   One trick I sometimes use is to raise my hand.  Especially when I&rsquo;m deaf in the company of hearing people &#x2013; that situation makes it hard to know when&rsquo;s a suitable time to interject before someone else does, so I almost never catch the right opportunity &#x2013; but I do it even with other deafies.  I raise my hand, then when I&rsquo;m given the turn to speak, I may spend some time to figure out what it might have been that I wanted to say &#x2013; sometimes I&rsquo;ll just ask you &ldquo;where were we a minute ago?&rdquo; and figure it out from there.  My raised hand is essential as a &ldquo;placeholder&rdquo; for my own benefit &#x2013; otherwise I have to use my *brain* to keep remembering that I wanted to say something, and that means I can&rsquo;t listen anymore until I say my piece.
        -   Basically holding on to a thought means an auditory loop repeating it to myself every 5 seconds.

Friends

-   I find friends terrifying.  Because there&rsquo;s always probably *something* where I&rsquo;m not doing right by them.  Something which I could figure out by thinking deeply about them, about recent events, about how much I know of recent events in their lives (whereupon I may realize I haven&rsquo;t asked them a question in months), about how they may be feeling, and so on.  I think of it as sweeping for mines, I want to disarm them before they blow up.
    -   Unfortunately, I&rsquo;m averse to thinking about &ldquo;non-nice&rdquo; things, especially if there&rsquo;s a risk that I will realize that I&rsquo;m responsible for something.  These thoughts quickly run and hide and I stop being aware of them, so I have to find them by meditating on questions like &ldquo;What scares me the most?&rdquo;.  It&rsquo;s like you&rsquo;re in a room full of boxes, and you don&rsquo;t know what&rsquo;s in any of the boxes, but most of the boxes contain dead mice, so they smell bad, and you want to leave, but some of them contain live bombs.  You have to take some time and open all the boxes to make sure to find every bomb.  A new friend is a new whole room like this and the rooms get re-filled regularly.

It&rsquo;s been helpful to read about people with big difficulties, like the person who took [eleven years to mail a package](https://romankogan.net/adhd/#Eleven%20Years%20To%20Mail%20A%20Package) or the person who needs to look up [a checklist for brushing their teeth](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/uepimrcHwLzuhK7Pa/what-to-do-if-you-can-t-form-any-habits-whatsoever?commentId=TwMpjjtB427reFQ32) because otherwise s/he forgets the part where you add toothpaste and the part where you rinse.  It let me embrace the idea of &ldquo;using checklists for everything, no matter how silly&rdquo; as a valid strategy.  In the TV-show *Atypical*, the teenage guy with autism was sort-of dating a girl, who set some frivolous terms on their relationship, whereupon he picks up a notebook and pencil and writes them down meticulously.  These terms were not meant very seriously, but he took them as such, and memorized them &#x2026;  What the show makes clear is that he&rsquo;s not being silly for doing so, or at any sort of fault.  Sometimes the best thing you can do is take people literally and then leave the responsibility on the other party to manage the misunderstanding.  Be genuine, honest, and do your best (no matter what tools you need for that), and that&rsquo;s all anyone can ask, I think.

